[Music]
hiya
today i am very very excited because
i am finally talking about books the
reason this video has taken so long to
put together
is that i don't play favorites so i had
no idea what books to recommend first
but i thought i have to start from
somewhere
so today i will introduce you to five of
some of my favorite
books in no particular order so yeah
let's just get started
the first book is stephen hawking's a
brief history of time
from the big bang to black holes i have
mentioned before that i love physics a
lot
i think i might not have emphasized just
how much
i used to be absolutely obsessed with it
books of this sort
are the first type that i will naturally
gravitate to if i have
any time off and want to read they are
just
so so so incredible the thing that i
love is that they
are so far removed from anything
practical they transcend emotions
history politics anything happening at
the moment
and to me it is the most engaging
inspiring
and mentally challenging escape the book
is
targeted at i think many different
levels so you don't have to
focus on the formulas too much even
though when i first read it i was trying
to derive formulas from first principles
stephen hawking has such a wonderful way
with words this is not like a physics
textbook
it's so engaging i would compare it to
documentaries that you get on national
geographic about the universe
just a million times better and on paper
i know that books like this can get
quite dark
and nihilistic but i am genuinely
thriving when i'm reading books like
this which
i mean might say a lot about me i don't
know but i would definitely definitely
recommend it if you're anything like me
my favorite parts of this whole book
were the explanation on why the sum of
the energy in the universe can be
zero and also stephen hawking's
calculations on how
the universe might have started at a
certain point but it need not
necessarily have been
a singularity it's explained in the book
it's really really cool i'd love to talk
about
it more but i'm going to move on from
this one for now the next book is to the
lighthouse by virginia woolf
and as far as modern classics go
actually i am safely going to say that
this
is my favorite virginia wolf is one of
those authors that makes me feel as
though i should never
ever write a book because i don't think
i could
ever compare with what she does but this
woman was clearly a massive overthinker
which is something i can
very much relate to but not only that i
feel as though she has this incredible
depth of understanding into human nature
on both the personal level and
especially the interactions and dynamics
in families or friendships or the
greater world
this book on the surface is like one of
those nightmare literature books that
i had to read in school because
genuinely there's no plot line
absolutely nothing happens it's just
introspection and thoughts
so on the surface it can seem very very
boring however i cannot describe just
how
life-changing and valuable this book has
been to me she puts you in the point of
view
of a mother in a very large family this
woman honestly has a next level
understanding of human nature but not
only this
because of the teaching and the
perspective that you gain through being
in her shoes
i feel as though virginia intentionally
makes you
have even more insight than this woman
herself has
so you start seeing the flaws in her
thinking and it's like
showing you that you are now able to
understand this family dynamic
even better it is absolutely incredible
if you are interested at
all in human psychology this is i think
one of the most beautiful books of all
time
and adding on to that her literary
talent which i haven't even mentioned so
far
makes this book absolutely amazing
honestly 100 out of 10 would recommend
so so so
so much the next book is the genealogy
of morals
by frederic nietzsche and this is the
first real philosophy that i ever read
and i think for that reason i'm greatly
greatly attached to it
and this book is extremely extremely
problematic
i shudder to think what frederick would
have thought of the world if he was
around
today because um it seems as though he
is calling
the whole world snowflakes and
is slightly problematic however i
absolutely still love it
i think used well this book is a very
very good self-help manual friday
is quite honest and brutal about how
much he dislikes
man's hate for oneself and he really
goes into describing just how ridiculous
that is
that we are the only creature in the
world that hate ourselves
this doesn't happen with any other
creatures and not only this but he does
very interestingly point out how
unreliable
our moral values are because things that
we now consider sacred
were considered terrible in the past and
vice versa i think he uses the example
somewhere of richer people in the past
having
a beheading or a hanging at their
wedding because they
celebrated murder in a sort of way
while today that would be completely
ridiculous so by showing all these
contrasts he
i think he does a very very interesting
exploration
on what it actually means to be human
and just how unreliable ourselves are so
i would definitely recommend this as a
manual for self-love
and also as a very provocative read i
honestly wish
i had a book club with whom to discuss
this book because i've just never
managed to have those discussions with
anyone except myself
and i think it would be incredibly
interesting the next book would probably
be something medical as it is a huge
genre in what i read
and at first i was going to go with
adventures down a rabbit hole
because when i first read that book
about seven years ago
it was the first thing that kindled my
love for neurology
however i resisted the temptation and
instead went
for atul gawande's being mortal and the
reason is that i think
that everyone should read this book in
this book he discusses the quite taboo
topic of end of life
and death i guess i had never before
considered the things mentioned in here
another
main reason i would recommend this if
you feel scared to do something or
tell someone what's on your mind i would
recommend reading this book
it really highlights just how little
time we have
being able to talk or walk or feed
ourselves
and how soon everything ends after
reading this i remember getting a new
sense and push and appreciation to do
things with a lot less complexes
so i'd completely forgotten about it
actually so next time i'm scared of
doing something
i'm definitely going back to this book
it's so great for that the last book i'm
going to mention
is the courage to be disliked now
this is a book i read very recently so
last year after it had
so much hype surrounding it i remember
absolutely hating it
at first it's written in a form of a
dialogue but i feel as though one of the
main characters is extremely unlikable
and the whole tone of the book just felt
kind of
condescending to me because i found it
difficult to believe
that the conversation was genuine it
really didn't feel that way
because the main person was kind of
annoying i didn't like it at first
however i will now say it is one of my
absolute
favorite books this book has given me so
many new frameworks with which to
approach my life
and the world and i'm so grateful to it
for
minimizing so many complexes that i used
to have in my head before it explains
for example how praise
can make someone lose faith in their own
ability over time
how it is a terrible thing to use your
disadvantage as a power
which is something that is done
unfortunately quite a lot
and above everything i think the
framework of judging what is my problem
and what is someone else's problem
has been absolutely life-changing what i
mean for example
is someone's opinion on me is their own
problem
rather than mine and therefore i
shouldn't
care about it and although this is
easier said than done
i think reading this book fully
explaining this concept in a lot of
detail
has made it so easy for me to actually
embrace this way of thinking which has
been
incredibly liberating so i would
definitely absolutely recommend it to
everyone the only quote i'm going to
mention is from this book
saying that if you don't live your life
who is going to live it for you
so at that i am going to wrap up this
video honestly
i really want to make this a thing where
i discuss either one book in depth or
even a
concept from a book in depth i'm just
not sure what that format looks like
yet but hopefully i will figure it out
soon
if you have any suggestions i'd love
them but yes if you made it so far
as always thank you so much for spending
this time with me i hope you have a
wonderful rest of your day
be kind yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks
bye